What is PIP ?
PIP stands for Preferred installer program. We use pip to install different Python packages. Package is a Python module that can contain one or more modules or other packages. A module or modules that we can install to our application is a package. In programming, we do not have to write every utility program, instead we install packages and import them to our applications.

NumPy is the fundamental package for scientific computing with Python. It contains among other things:
a powerful N-dimensional array object
sophisticated (broadcasting) functions
tools for integrating C/C++ and Fortran code
useful linear algebra, Fourier transform, and random number capabilities

Pandas is an open source, BSD-licensed library providing high-performance, easy-to-use data structures and data analysis tools for the Python programming language. Let us install the big brother of numpy, pandas:

By now you are familiar with how to read or write on a file located on you local machine. Sometimes, we would like to read from a website using url or from an API. API stands for Application Program Interface. It is a means to exchange structured data between servers primarily as json data. To open a network connection, we need a package called requests - it allows to open a network connection and to implement CRUD(create, read, update and delete) operations.

We will see get, status_code, headers, text and json methods in requests module:

get(): to open a network and fetch data from url - it returns a response object
status_code: After we fetched data, we can check the status of the operation (success, error, etc)
headers: To check the header types
text: to extract the text from the fetched response object
json: to extract json data Let's read a txt file from this website, https://www.w3.org/TR/PNG/iso_8859-1.txt.

The package folder contains a special file called init.py - it stores the package's content. If we put init.py in the package folder, python start recognizes it as a package. The init.py exposes specified resources from its modules to be imported to other python files. An empty init.py file makes all functions available when a package is imported. The init.py is essential for the folder to be recognized by Python as a package.

Database

SQLAlchemy or SQLObject - Object oriented access to several different database systems
pip install SQLAlchemy
Web Development

Django - High-level web framework.
pip install django
Flask - micro framework for Python based on Werkzeug, Jinja 2. (It's BSD licensed)
pip install flask
HTML Parser

Beautiful Soup - HTML/XML parser designed for quick turnaround projects like screen-scraping, will accept bad markup.
pip install beautifulsoup4
PyQuery - implements jQuery in Python; faster than BeautifulSoup, apparently.
XML Processing

ElementTree - The Element type is a simple but flexible container object, designed to store hierarchical data structures, such as simplified XML infosets, in memory. --Note: Python 2.5 and up has ElementTree in the Standard Library
GUI

PyQt - Bindings for the cross-platform Qt framework.
TkInter - The traditional Python user interface toolkit.
Data Analysis, Data Science and Machine learning

Numpy: Numpy(numeric python) is known as one of the most popular machine learning library in Python.
Pandas: is a data analysis, data science and a machine learning library in Python that provides data structures of high-level and a wide variety of tools for analysis.
SciPy: SciPy is a machine learning library for application developers and engineers. SciPy library contains modules for optimization, linear algebra, integration, image processing, and statistics.
Scikit-Learn: It is NumPy and SciPy. It is considered as one of the best libraries for working with complex data.
TensorFlow: is a machine learning library built by Google.
Keras: is considered as one of the coolest machine learning libraries in Python. It provides an easier mechanism to express neural networks. Keras also provides some of the best utilities for compiling models, processing data-sets, visualization of graphs, and much more.
Network:

requests: is a package which we can use to send requests to a server(GET, POST, DELETE, PUT)
pip install requests

